+++
images = [""]
author = "Staff"
description = ""
date = "2023-01-25T10:18:25-05:00"
title = "Virginia Women in HPC - Women in HPC & IT Leadership Roles, Part II"
draft = false
tags = ["rivanna","whpc","va-whpc","hpc"]
categories = ["feature"]
+++

**Topic:** Women in HPC & IT Leadership Roles, Part II.

**When:** January 31, 2023 01:00 PM, Eastern Time (US and Canada).

Let’s welcome 2023 with a community event to hear from female leaders in the IT & HPC field sharing challenges and successes experienced throughout their careers. Don’t miss this fantastic opportunity to learn about career strategies and contribute to our discussion of how the playing field may be leveled to offer equitable IT & HPC leadership opportunities for women and minorities. Attendees are invited to share their own experiences and engage with panelists during this interactive Q&A session.

## Featured Panelists:

* [**Virginia Evans**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/virginia-evans-732a929/) **- Former Vice President and Chief Information Officer (CIO) at the University of Virginia.**

     Virginia Evans is the former vice president and chief information officer (CIO) at the University of Virginia, where she was responsible for planning and delivering central IT infrastructure, applications, IT support, and information security and IT policy, as well as research computing for the University.

     Ms. Evans has over 35 years of IT experience, ranging from IT consulting with Andersen Consulting (now Accenture) and independent IT consulting, to 30 years managing IT at the University of Virginia at both the central and school levels.  She is an active participant in national IT organizations of large research universities—CSG (Common Solutions Group) and RUCC (Research University CIO group), as well as Internet2.

     Ms. Evans holds a B.S. degree with a concentration in Accounting from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and an M.S. degree in Management Information Systems from the University of Virginia's McIntire School of Commerce, where she has also served as an adjunct professor, teaching classes at the graduate level.

* [**Shannon Phillips**](https://www.linkedin.com/in/shannon-phillips-6b372173/) **- Director of IT Service Operations for University Libraries at Virginia Tech.**

     Shannon Phillips is the Director of IT Service Operations for University Libraries at Virginia Tech. In her current position, she is responsible for leading the IT professionals who provide support desk services, desktop support, systems support, technology training, and IT policy compliance across all University Libraries locations.

     Shannon is an IT professional with more than twenty years experience working for several public universities across the Commonwealth of Virginia.  Past positions held include Director of Technology Support Services, Director of Instructional Technologies, and Associate Director for Academic Computing. Shannon holds a BA in Music as well as an MAEd from Virginia Tech. Her graduate studies were focused in instructional design and instructional technology.

* [**Moderator**](/about/people/siller/) - Karsten Siller, Research Computing at the University of Virginia.

{{< button button-class="primary" button-text="REGISTER NOW!" button-url="https://virginia.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJEtduupqDorHtycPKnvLC4Si6eFptnKQPtK" >}}

- - - 

[**Virginia WHPC**](https://va-whpc.org/) is committed to increasing diversity and inclusion by promoting and encouraging the participation of women in high-performance computing and related fields. 
